README.md, before:

**jquery.x**, or simply **X**, is a natural extension to the jQuery library and was created to bring MVVM (a modern derivation of MVC) to your jQuery projects. At the center of the library lies the Apply Loop (where all the magic happens). The Apply Loop automates the process of having to update the UI when changes are made to the underlying data model.

##Installation
For ease of use, I decided to make jquery.x available through [Bower](http://bower.io "Bower"). To download it simply run: `bower install jquery.x` in your console.

With each release, there will be a prebuilt version of the library that you may use in the `dist` directory. I recommend using `/dist/jquery.x.min.js` for your production environment.

##Requirements
**jQuery** - Works with jQuery versions greater than 1.8.

##Getting Started
To get started with jquery.x it all begins with defining a controller and binding it to a DOM node:

	//jquery and jquery.x must be ready
	$(function(){
		//register a controller
		$.x.controller('HelloWorldController', function(controller, view){
			//empty controller
		});
	})

Next we need to bind our newly defined controller to a DOM node:

	<div data-x-controller="HelloWorldController"></div>

What is so important here about the binding of 'HelloWorldController' controller is that you just set the boundaries of where all of your interactions will happen. No changes to the view should be happening outside of these boundaries.

Now that we have our controller defined and our DOM node bound, lets play with some MVVM magic:

	<div data-x-controller="HelloWorldController">
    	<p>Your Name: <input type="text" data-x-model="name" /></p>
    	<p>Hello My Name Is: <span data-x-bind="name"></span></p>
	</div>

[View Results](http://jsfiddle.net/jljLabs/2tqu3bm2/3/)

##License
MIT license - [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php "MIT license")

Commit message:

Starting to fill in documentation.

README.md, after:

**jquery.x**, or simply **X**, is a natural extension to the jQuery library and was created to bring MVVM (a modern derivation of MVC) to your jQuery projects. At the center of the library lies the Apply Loop (where all the magic happens). The Apply Loop automates the process of having to update the UI when changes are made to the underlying data model.

## Installation
For ease of use, I decided to make jquery.x available through [Bower](http://bower.io "Bower"). To download it simply run: `bower install jquery.x` in your console.

With each release, there will be a prebuilt version of the library that you may use in the `dist` directory. I recommend using `/dist/jquery.x.min.js` for your production environment.

## Requirements
**jQuery** - Works with jQuery versions greater than 1.8.

## Getting Started
To get started with jquery.x it all begins with defining a controller and binding it to a DOM node:

	//jquery and jquery.x must be ready
	$(function(){
		//register a controller
		$.x.controller('HelloWorldController', function(controller, view){
			//empty controller
		});
	})

Next we need to bind our newly defined controller to a DOM node:

	<div data-x-controller="HelloWorldController"></div>

What is so important here about the binding of 'HelloWorldController' controller is that you just set the boundaries of where all of your interactions will happen. No changes to the view should be happening outside of these boundaries.

Now that we have our controller defined and our DOM node bound, lets play with some MVVM magic, add two lines of code to your HTML markup:

	<div data-x-controller="HelloWorldController">
    	<p>Your Name: <input type="text" data-x-model="name" /></p>
    	<p>Hello My Name Is: <span data-x-bind="name"></span></p>
	</div>

[View Results](http://jsfiddle.net/jljLabs/2tqu3bm2/3/)

## Why MVVM?

MVVM is a modern interpretation of your traditional MVC, but with a twist. In a traditional MVC framework, there is typically a middle layer that sits between the Controller and the View called the View Model. In an MVC, the View Model is an object representation of the view that contains dynamic data that will be consumed by the View. This allows you to decouple view logic and business logic. In a traditional MVC, this is known as a one-way binding. MVVM builds on top of the MVC pattern and provides a two-way binding. Which not only allows the Controller to communicate with the View, but the View to communicate to the Controller as well through the View Model, and it is all done automatically! So whenever, say you make a change to the value in the View Model from the Controller, the View will automatically be refreshed to reflect the change. If you make a change to a value in a field in the View, the value in the Controller will automatically be updated. All of this coordination happens through the View Model. If this all sounds like giberish to you, you will need to do some more research on MVC so that you can understand the Binding Concept.

## X Overview



## The X Object

## The Controller Object

## The View Object

## The Apply Loop

## Controller's Update Function

## Aspects

## Extending X

## Library API Documentation

## License
MIT license - [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php "MIT license")
